T H E H I S T O RY O F A LI BA BA A N D
T H E FO RTY RO BBE RS
1
AUTHOR UNKNOWN
[Setting This story ,
like Esther ,
takes place in Persia . The
stories of
“ The Arabian Nights
”
as a whole probably origin ated in
India , were modified and augmented by the Persians , and had
the finishing touches put upon them by the Arabians . Bagdad
on the Tigris is the city that figures most prominently in the
stories , and the good caliph Haroun Al-Raschid (
or Alraschid) ,
who ruled from 7
86 to 8 0 9 , A . D .
,
is the monarch most Often
mentioned .
“A goodly place, a goodly time,
For it was in th e golden prime
Of good Haroun Alraschid.
”
However Old the germs o f the stories are ,
the form in which
we have them hardly antedates the year 1 45
0 . The absence of
all mention of coffee and tobacco precludes , at least , a date
much later . They began to be translated into the languages Of
Europe d uring the reign o f Queen Anne and , with the excep
tion Of the Old Testament, have been the chief orientalizing
influence in modern literature . The setting Of Ali Baba
shows the four characteristics Of all these Perso—Arabian tales
it has to do with town life , not country life ;
it pres upposes one
faith ,
the Mohammedan ;
it Shows a fondness for magic ;
and
it takes for granted an audience interested not in moral or
ethical distinctions but in story-telling fo r story-telling
’
s sake .
1 From Th e Arabian Nights .
”
24

26 SHORT STORIES
CASSI M, ALI BABA’ S BROTHER, D I SCOVERED AND
KI LLED BY TH E RO BBERS
There once lived in a town Of Persia two brothers , one
named Cassim and the other Ali Baba . Their father divided his
small property equally between them .
“Cassim married a very
rich wife , and became a wealthy merchant . Ali Baba married
a woman as poor as himself, and lived by cutting wood and
bringing it upon three asses into the town
-
to sell .
One day, when Ali Baba had cut just enough wood in the
forest to load his asses , he noticed far off a great cloud Of dust .
As it drew nearer , he saw that it was made by a body of horse
men , whom he suspected to be robbers . Leaving the asses ,
he climbed a large tree which grew on a high rock , and had
branches thick enough to hide him completely while he saw
what passed beneath . The troop ,
forty in number, all well
mounted and armed , came to the foot Of the rock on which
the tree stood , and there dismounted . Each man unbridled his
horse ,
tied him to a shrub , and hung about his neck a bag of
corn. Then each of them took Off his saddle-bag, which from
its weight seemed to Ali Baba full of gold and silver . One,
whom he took to be their captain , came under the tree in which
Ali Baba was concealed ; and , making his way through some
shrubs ,
Spoke the words : Open , Sesame .
” 1 As soon as the
captain Of the robbers said this , a door Opened in the rock , and
after he had made all his troop enter before him, he followed
them, when the door shut again of itself .
The robbers stayed some time within , and Ali Baba,
fearful
of being caught ,
remained in the tree . At last the door opened
again , and the captain came out first , and stood to see all the
1 S esame (p ro noun c ed s e
’
s sa my) , a small grain.
ALI BABA AN D T H E FORTY RO BB ERS 27
troop pass by him . Then Ali Baba heard him make the door
close by saying :
“
Shut , Sesame .
” Every man at once bridled
his horse ,
fastened his wallet , and mounted again . When the
captain saw them all ready , he put himself at their head, and
they returned the way they had come .
Ali Baba watched them ou t Of sight , and then waited some
time before coming down . Wishing to see whether the captain
’
s
words would have the same effect if he should speak them, he
found the door hidden in the shrubs , stood before it , and said
Open , Sesame .
”
Instantly the door flew wide open .
Instead of a dark , dismal cavern , Ali Baba was surprised to
see a large chamber, well lighted from the top , and in it all
sorts of provisions ,
I
'
lCh bales Of silk , brocade and carpeting ,
gold and silver ingots in great heaps , and money in bags .
Ali Baba went boldly into the cave , and collected as much
of the gold coin , which was in bags , as he thought his asses
could carry . When he had loaded them with the bags , he laid
wood over them so that they could not be seen , and , passing
out Of the door for the last time ,
stood before it and said
:
Shut , Sesame .
” The door closed Of itself, and he made the
best of his way to town .
When he reached home , be carefully closed the gate of his
little yard ,
threw Off the wood , and carried the bags into the
house . They were emptied before his wife , and the great heap
Of gold dazzled her eyes . Then he told her the whole adventure ,
and warned her , above all things ,
to keep it secret .
Ali Baba would not let her take the time to count it out as
sh e wished , but said : 1 will dig a hole and bury it .
”
But let us know as nearly as may be ,
she said , how
much we have . I will borrow a small measure , and measure it ,
while you dig a hole .
Away sh e ran to the wife Of Cassim, who lived near by , and
asked for a measure . The sister-in—law, knowing Ali Baba
’
s
8 SH ORT STORIES
poverty , was curious to learn what sort of grain his wife wished
to measure out, and artfully managed to put some suet in the
bottom Of the measure before she handed it over . Ali Baba
’
s
wife wanted to Show how careful she was in small matters , and ,
after she had measured the gold , hurried back , even while her
hu sband was burying it , with the borrowed measure , never
noticing that a coin had stuck to its bottom .
What
”
said Cassim
’
s wife , as soon as her sister-in-law had
left her , has Ali Baba gold in such plenty that he measures
it
? Whence has he all this wealth ?
” And envy possessed her
breast .
When Cassim came home,
she said to him : Cassim, you
think yourself rich , but Ali Baba is much richer . He does not
count his money ; he measures it .
” Then she explained to him
how she had found it out, and they looked together at the piece
Of money , which was so Old that they could not tell in what
prince
’
s reign it was coined .
Cassim,
since marrying the rich widow, had never treated
Ali Baba as a brother , but neglected him . Now,
instead of be
ing pleased , he was filled with a base envy . Early in the morn
ing, after a sleepless night, he went to him and said :
“ Ali
Baba , you pretend to be wretchedly poor, and yet you measure
gold . My wife found this at the bottom of the measure you
borrowed yesterday .
”
Ali Baba saw that there was no use Of trying to conceal his
good fortune , and told the whole story , offering his brother
part Of the treasure to keep the secret .
I expect as much ,
”
replied Cassim haughtily ; but I must
know just where this treasure is and how to visit it myself
when I choose . Otherwise I will inform against you , and you
will lose even what you have now .
”
Ali Baba told him all he wished to know, even to the words
he must speak at the door of the cave .
ALI BABA AND TH E FORTY RO B B ERS 29
Cassim rose before the sun the next morning , and set ou t
for the forest with ten mules bearing great chests which he
meant to fill . With little trouble he found the rock and the
door, and ,
standing before it,
spoke the words : Open . Sesame .
”
The door Opened at once , and when he was within closed upon
him . Here indeed were the riches of which his brother had
told . He quickly brought as many bags of gold as he could
carry to the door of the cavern ; but his thoughts were so full
of his new wealth ,
that he could not think of the word that
should let him out. Instead of Sesame ,
”
he said
“ Open ,
Barley , and was much amazed to find that the door remained
fast shut . He named several sorts Of grain , but still the door
would not open .
Cassim had never expected such a disaster , and was so
frightened that the more he tried to recall the word Sesame ,
”
the more confused his mind became . It was as if he had never
heard the word at all . He threw down the bags in his hands ,
and walked wildly up and down , without a thought Of the riches
lying round about him .
At noon the robbers visited their cave . From afar they saw
Cassim
’
s mules straggling about the rock , and galloped full
Speed to the cave . Drivin g the mules out of sight ,
they went
at once , with their naked sabres in their hands ,
to the door,
which opened as soon as the captain had spoken the proper
words before it .
Cassim had heard the noise Of the horses
’
feet , and guessed
that the robbers had come . He resolved to make one effort for
his life . As soon as the door Opened , be rushed out and threw
the leader down , but could not pass the other robbers , who
with their scimitars soon put him to death .
The first care of the robbers was to examine the cave . They
found all the bags Cassim had brought to the door , but did not
miss what Ali Baba had taken . As for Cassim himself,
they
30 SHORT STORIES
guessed rightly that , once within , he could not get out agam ;
but how he had managed to learn their secret words that let
him in ,
they could not tell . One thing was certain ,
there he
was ; and to warn all others who might know their secret and
follow in Cassim
’
s footsteps ,
they agreed to cut his body into
four quarters — to hang two o n one Side and two on the other ,
within the door of the cave . This they did at once , and leaving
the place Of their hoards well closed , mounted their horses and
set out to attack the caravans they might meet .
TH E MANNER OF CA S S I M’
S D EATH CONCEALED
When night came , and Cassim did not return , his wife be
came very uneasy . She ran to Ali Baba for comfort , and he
told her that Cassim would certainly think it unwise to enter
the town till night was well advanced . By midnight Cassim
’
s
wife was still more alarmed , and wept till morning, cursing her
desire to pry into the affairs of her brother and sister-in-law .
In the early day she went again ,
in tears ,
to Ali Baba .
He did not wait for her to ask him to go and see what had
happened to Cassim, but set ou t at once for the forest with his
three asses . Finding some blood at the door of the cave , he
took it for an ill omen but when he had spoken the words , and
the door had Opened , he was struck with horror at the dismal
sight Of his brother
’
s body . He could not leave it there , and
hastened within to find something to wrap around it . Laying
the body on one of his asses , he covered it with wood . The
other two asses he loaded with bags of gold , covering them also
with wood as before . Then bidding the door shut, he came
away , but stopped some time at the edge of the forest ,
that he
might not go into the town before night . When h e reached
home he left the two asses ,
laden with gold ,
in his little yard
ALI BABA AND T H E FORTY RO B B ERS 3 1
for his wife to unload , and led the other to his sister-in-law
’
s
h ouse .
Ali Baba knocked at the door, which was Opened by Morgi
ana, a clever slave ,
full of devices to conquer difficulties . When
he came into the court and unloaded the ass, he took Morgiana
aside , and said to her
You must Observe a strict secrecy . Your master
’
s body is
contained in these two panniers . We must bury him as if he
had died a natural death . Go now and tell your mistress . I
leave the matter to your wit and skillful devices .
”
They placed the body in Cassim
’
s house , and ,
charging
Morgiana to act well her part, Ali Baba returned home with
his ass .
Early the next morning , Morgiana went to a druggist, and
asked for a sort Of lozenge used in the most dangerous illness .
When he asked her for whom she wanted it,
she answered with
a sigh : My good master Cassim . He can neither eat nor
speak . In the evening she went to the same druggist, and
with tears in her eyes asked for an essence given to Sick per
sons for whose life there is little hope .
“ Alas I said she ,
I
am afraid even this will not save my good master.
”
All that day Ali Baba and his wife were seen going sadly
between their house and Cassim
’
s , and in the evening nobody
was surprised to hear the shrieks and cries o f Cassim
’
s wife
and Morgiana, who told everybody that her master was dead;
The next morning at daybreak she went to an Old cobbler ,
who was always early at work , and , putting a piece of gold in
his hand , said
Baba Mustapha , you must bring your sewing-tackle and
come with me ; but I must tell you, I shall blindfold you
fi
when
we reach a certain place .
”
Oh ! Oh I replied be, you would have me do something
against my conscience or my honor.
”
32 SH ORT STORIES
God forbid !
”
said Morgiana, putting another piece Of gold
in his hand ; only come along with me , and fear nothing .
Baba Mustapha went with Morgiana, and at a certain place
she bound his eyes with a handkerchief, which sh e never un
loosed till they had entered the room Of her master
’
s house,
where she had put the corpse together .
Baba Mustapha ,
”
said sh e,
“
you must make haste ,
and
sew the
: parts of this body together, and when you have done ,
I will give you another piece of gold .
”
After Baba Mustapha had finished his task , she blindfolded
him again , gave him the third piece Of gold she had promised ,
and; charging him with secrecy,
took him back to the place
where she had first bound his eyes . Taking off the bandage ,
she watched him till he was out Of sight ,
lest he should return
and dog her ;
then she went home .
At Cassim
’
s house she made all things ready for the funeral
,
which Was duly performed by the imaum 1
and other ministers
of the mosque . Morgiana, as a slave Of the dead man , walked
in the procession , weeping , beating her breast, and tearing her
hair . Cassim
’
s wife stayed at home , uttering doleful cries with
the women o f the neighborhood , who, according to custom,
came to mourn with her . The whole quarter was filled with
sounds of sorrow .
Thus the manner Of Cassim
’
s death was hushed up , and , be
sides his widow, Ali Baba , and Morgiana,
the slave, nobody in
the city suspected the cause Of it. Three or four days after the
funeral
, Ali Baba removed his few goods Openly to his sister-in
law
’
s house ,
in which he was to live in the future ; but the
money he had taken from the robbers was carried thither by
night . As for Cassim
’
s warehouse , Ali Baba put it entirely
under the charge of his eldest son .
1 Imaum, a M o hammedan pri e st.

34 SH ORT STORIES
A dead body I exclaimed the robber amaz ed .
Yes, yes,
”
answered Baba Mustapha ;
I see you want to
know more , but you shall not .
”
The robber felt sure that he was on the right track . He put a
piece Of gold into Baba Mustapha
’
s hand , and said to him
I do not want to learn your secret,
though you could safely
trust me with it . The only thing I ask Of you is to show me
the house where you stitched up the dead body .
”
“
I could not do that,
”
replied Baba Mustapha ,
if I would .
I was taken to a certain place , whence I was led blindfold to the
house , and afterwards brought back again in the same manner .
”
Well
,
replied the robber , you may remember a little of
the way that you were led blindfold . Come ,
let me blind your
eyes at the same place . We will walk together , and perhaps you
may recall the way . Here is another piece of gold for you .
This was enough to bring Baba Mustapha to his feet . They
soon reached the place where Morgiana had bandaged his eyes ,
and here he was blindfolded again . Baba Mustapha and the
robber walked on till they came to Cassim
’
s house , where Ali
Baba now lived . Here the Old man stopped , and when the
thief pulled off the band , and found that his guide could not
tell him whose house it was , he let him go . But before he
started back for the forest himself, well pleased with what he
had learned , he marked the door with a piece of chalk which
he had ready in his hand .
Soon after this Morgiana came out upon some errand , and
when sh e returned she saw the mark the robber had made,
and stopped to look at it .
What can this mean ?
”
she said to herself. Somebody
intends my master harm, and in any case it is best to guard
against the worst .
” Then she fetched a piece of chalk , and
marked two o r three doors on each side in the same manner,
saying nothing to her master or mistress .
ALI BABA AND TH E FORTY ROB B ERS 35
When the robber rejoined his troop in the forest , and told o f
his good fortune in meeting the one man that could have helped
him,
they were all delighted .
Comrades ,
”
said the captain , we have no time to lose .
Let us set Off at once , well armed and disguised , enter the town
by twos , and join at the great square . Meanwhile our comrade
who has brought us the good news and I will go and find o ut
the house , and decide what had best be done .
”
TWO by two they entered the town . Last of all went the
captain and the spy. When they came to the first Of the houses
which Morgiana had marked ,
the spy pointed it out. But the
captain noticed that the next door was chalked in the same
manner , and asked his guide which house it was,
that or the
first . The guide knew not what answer to make , and was still
more puzzled when he and the captain saw five or six houses
marked after this same fashion . He assured the captain , with
an oath ,
that he had marked but one , and could not tell who
had chalked the rest, nor could he say at which house the
cobbler had stopped .
There was nothing to do but to join the other robbers , and
tell them to go back to the cave . Here they were told why
they had all returned , and the guide was declared by all to be
worthy Of death . Indeed , he condemned himself, owning that
he ought to have been more careful
, and prepared to receive
the stroke which was to cut Off his head .
The safety of the troop still demanded that the second comer
to the cave should be found , and another of the gang offered
to try it , with the same penalty if he should fail . Like the other
robber, he found out Baba Mustapha , and ,
through him,
the
house , which he marked ,
in a place remote from sight, with red
chalk .
But nothing could escape Morgiana
’
s eyes , and when she
went out , not long after , and saw the red chalk ,
she argued
36 SH ORT STORIES
with herself as before , and marked the other houses near by in
the same place and manner .
The robber, when he told his comrades what he had done ,
prided himself on his carefulness , and the captain and all the
troop thought they must succeed this time . Again they entered
the town by twos ; but when the robber and his captain came
to the street ,
they found the same trouble . The captain was
enraged , and the robber as much confused as the former guide
had been . Thus the captain and his troop went back again to
the cave , and the robber who had failed willingly gave himself
up to death .
T H E ROB BERS , E! CEPT TH E CAPTAIN, D I S COVERED
A N D KI LLED BY MORG I AN A
The captain could n ot afford to lose any more of his brave
fellows , and decided to take upon himself the task in which two
had failed . Like the others , he went to Baba Mustapha, and
was shown the house . Unlike them he put no mark on it , but
studied it carefully and passed it so Often that he could not
possibly mistake it .
When he returned to the troop , who were waiting for him in
the cave , he said
Now,
comrades , nothing can prevent our full revenge , as I
am certain of the house . As I returned I thought Of a way to
do our work , but if any one thinks Of a better,
let him speak .
”
He told them his plan , and , as they thought it good , he
ordered them to go into the villages about , and buy nineteen
mules , with thirty-eight large leather j ars, one full Of oil, and
the others empty . Within two or three days they returned with
the mules and the j ars , and as the mouths of the j
ars were
rather too narrow for the captain
’
s purpose , he caused them to
ALI BABA AND TH E FORTY ROBB ERS 37
be widened . Having put one o f his men into each j ar, with the
weapons which he thought fit, and having a seam wide enough
Open for each man to breathe , he rubbed the j ars on the outside
with oil from the full vessel .
Thus prepared they set out for the town ,
the nineteen mules
loaded with the thirty-seven robbers in j ars , and the j ar of Oil
,
with the captain as their driver . When he reached Ali Baba
’
s
door, he found Ali Baba sitting there taking a little fresh air
after his supper . The captain stopped his mules , and said
I have brought some Oil a great way to sell at to—morrow
’
s
market ; and it is now so late that I do not know where to lodge .
Will you do me the favor to let me pass the night with you
Though Ali Baba had seen the captain in the forest , and had
heard him speak , he could not know him in the disguise of an
oil-merchant, and bade him welcome . He opened his gates for
the mules to go into the yard , and ordered a slave to put them
in a stable and feed them when they were unloaded , and then
called Morgiana tO get a good supper for his guest . After
supper he charged her afresh to take good care of the stranger,
and said to her
TO-morrow morning I intend to go to the bath before day
°
take care to have my bathing linen ready ; give it to Abdalla
(which was his Slave
’
s name) , and make me some good broth
against my return .
” After this he went to bed .
In the mean time the captain Of the robbers went into the
yard , and took off the lid of each j ar, and told his people what
they must do . To each ,
in turn , he said
As soon as I throw some stones out Of the chamber win
dow where I lie , do not fail to come ou t, and I will join you
at once .
”
Then he went into the house , and Morgiana showed him
his chamber, where he soon put out the light , and laid himself
down in his clothes .
38 SH ORT STORIES
To carry ou t Ali Baba
’
s orders , Morgiana got his bathing linen
ready , and bade Abdalla to set on the pot for the broth ;
but
soon the lamp went out , and there was no more Oil in the house ,
nor any candles . She knew not what to
‘
do ,
till the slave
reminded her o f the oil-j ars in the yard . She thanked him for
the thought,
took the o il—pot , and went ou t. When she came
nigh the first j ar,
the robber within said softly : Is it time ”?
Of course she was surprised to find a man in the jar instead
of the Oil
, but she saw at once that she must keep silence ,
as
Ali Baba, his family, and she herself were in great danger .
Therefore sh e answered , without showing any fear : Not yet
,
but presently .
”
In this manner she went to all the j ars and
gave the same answers ,
till she came to the j ar o f oil.
By this means Morgian a found that her master had admitted
to his house thirty-eight robbers , o f whom the pretended oil
merchant,
their captain , was on e . She made what haste she
could to fill her oil-pot , and returned to her kitchen ,
lighted her
lamp , and taking a great kettle went back to the oil-j ar and filled
it . Then sh e set the kettle on a large wood fire , and as soon as
it boiled went and poured enough into every jar tO
'
Stifie and
destroy the robber within .
When this deed , worthy o f the courage of Morgiana, was
done without any noise , as She had planned ,
sh e returned to the
kitchen with the empty kettle , put out the lamp , and left just
enough o f the fire to make the broth . Then sh e sat silent ,
resolving not to go to rest till she had seen through the window
that Opened on the yard whatever might happen there .
It was not long before the captain Of the robbers got up , and ,
seeing that all was dark and quiet , gave the appointed signal by
throwing little stones ,
some o f which hit the j ars , as be doubted
not by the sound they gave . As there was no res ponse , he
threw stones a second and a third time , and could not imagine
why there was no answer to his signal .
ALI BABA AND T H E FORTY RO BB ERS 39
Much alarmed , he went softly down into the yard , and , going
to the first jar to ask the robber if he was ready ,
smelt the hot
boiled oil, which sent forth a steam ou t of the j ar. From this
be suspected that his plot was found out , and ,
looking into the
j ars one by one , he found that all his gang were dead . Enraged
to despair, he forced the lock o f a door that led from the yard
to the garden , and made
'
his escape . When Morgiana saw him
go ,
she went to bed , well pleased that she had saved her master
and his family .
Ali Baba rose before day , and went to the baths without
knowing of what had happened in the night . When he returned
he was very much surprised to see the oil-j ars in the yard and
the mules in the stable .
God preserve you and all your family,
said Morgian a when
she was asked what it meant ; you will know better when you
have seen what I have to show you .
”
So saying she led him to the first jar , and asked him to see
if there was any Oil. When he saw a man instead, he started
back in alarm .
DO not be afraid ,
said Morgian a ; he can do neither you
nor anybody else the least harm . He is dead . Now look into
all the other j ars .
Ali Baba was more and more amazed as he went on, and
saw all the dead men and the sunken Oil-j ar at the end .
He stood looking from the j ars to Morgiana,
till he found
words to ask :
“ And what is become Of the merchant ?
”
Merchant ! answered sh e ; he is as much one as
I am .
”
Then she led him into the house , and told of all that sh e
had done ,
from the first noticing of the chalk-mark to the
death of the robbers and the flight o f their captain . On hears
ing of these brave deeds from Morgiana
’
s own lips , Ali Baba
said to her
40 SH ORT STORIES
God , by your means , has delivered me from death . For the
first token o f What I owe you ,
I give you your liberty from this
moment,
till I can fully reward you as I intend .
”
Near the trees at the end of Ali Baba
’
s long garden , he and
Abdalla dug a trench large enough to hold the bodies of the
robbers . When they were buried there , Ali Baba hid the j ars
and weapons ; and as the mules were of no use to him, he sent
them at different times to be sold in the market by his slave .